>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
remember the idea of, we did this
add function before and remember this idea
of binary functions taking two inputs.
What if I wanted to say, do a map corner,
we haven't talked about map but
many of you are familiar with
the idea of map where it
calls a function against
several different values.
If I wanted to addOne to all of
the values in my list, I could take this
addOne wrapper function and
call it pre specifying the number one
line 4 pre specifying the number 1 as one
of the inputs to this general add utility.
Why do I have to do it that way?
Why couldn't I just pass add?
As my mapper function.
>> Speaker 2: You're calling
a function off of the array?
>> Kyle Simpson: Right, map is gonna take
whatever function you provide to it and
it's gonna call it with
each value in the race.
So it's gonna call it five times here.
But why would it not be appropriate for
me to pass add on line 3 instead of this
function that I've called out addOne.
Why couldn't I just pass an ad?
>> Speaker 3: They have
a different number of arguments?
>> Kyle Simpson: They
have a different shape.
Do you see the shape?
Add as a binary function, map or
functions, are expecting unary functions.
A single value is getting passed in,
it's the wrong shape.
So what are we doing with addOne here?
>> Kyle Simpson: Fundamentally
we're changing the shape, right?
And how are we changing the shape?
By specializing it.
By pre-specifying one of the inputs.
In this case,
the first input to the number 1.
So you can probably guess
where I'm going with this.
It might be better to have
a curried version of add, so
that I can call line ten add of one
that makes my more specialized
function that is the correct shape.
This is an extremely common
technique in functional programming.
You will see this hundreds of times a day
when you get into functional programming.
Calling these little functions that
are curried, providing one input.
You get back a unary function and
you pass that into like a mapper or
a composition or anything like that,
you will see this all over the place.
And this is why currying ends up
being the far more preferred form
because you could have done it
with partial application but
it would have been a little
bit more awkward here.
It's nice if the add function is just
automatically curried and anywhere that
I need to make the specialized function,
I just call them, performing them.
>> Speaker 4: Where is
the curry function defined?
>> Kyle Simpson: It would be provided
by a functional programming library.
I'm not showing the implementation of it,
it's a little bit complex, I'm not
showing the implementation of curry.
But it would be a functional
programming library's API,
you call randodotcarrier,
r dot carrier I mean.
>> Speaker 4: So what you're saying, is
that currying is often used to sometimes
call a library that is already
available for the programmer?
>> Kyle Simpson: I would
characterize it this way.
So one used case for
currying is that specialization.
But another offshoot of
the idea of specialization
is that you're changing shape.
And that means that in places where,
for example,
I have a binary function that
I need a unary function.
That a currying specialization is
sometimes the right tool for that job.
So, currying allows you to take an
existing function that has one shape and
specialize it, producing a new
function that is more specialized
with a different shape and
has the shape that you want.